Update src/blog-posts/your-guide-to-contributing-well-in-wave (#1905)
drips-network/app: src/blog-posts/your-guide-to-contributing-well-in-wave.md

---
title: Your Guide to Contributing Well in Wave
excerpt: |
  A simple guide to contributing well in Wave
date: 2026-05-20
coverImage: /assets/blog-images/your-guide-to-contributing-well-in-wave/coverImage.png
coverImageAlt: Abstract image of tick lists, waves and nodes
author:
  - ugo-x
categories:
  - wave
  - guide
---
## Top Tips for Drips Wave Contributors

If you’re here to contribute, you’re in the right place.

> But contributing well isn’t just about writing code. It’s how you apply, how you communicate, how you handle feedback and how you follow through. The contributors who get the most out of Wave (and the ones maintainers want to work with again) tend to get these basics right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**But contributing well isn’t just about writing code.** It’s about how you apply, how you communicate, how you handle feedback, and how you follow through. The contributors who get the most out of Wave (and the ones maintainers want to work with again) tend to get these basics right.
```

> This guide is here to help you do exactly that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide is here to help you do exactly that ✨
```

## 1. Start with the docs

> Before you apply to anything, take a few minutes to read the docs on Drips Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you apply to your first issue, take a few minutes to read the [Drips Wave docs](https://docs.drips.network/wave/contributors/solving-issues-and-earning-rewards)!
```

> Most of the common questions are already answered there. A bit of upfront context can save a lot of confusion later. [You can find the Docs here.](https://docs.drips.network/wave/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many common questions are already answered there. A little bit of upfront context can save a lot of confusion later.
```

> Simple rule: if you’re unsure about something, check the docs first. If it’s still unclear, then ask.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Simple rule:** if you’re unsure about something, check the docs first. If it’s still unclear, then ask.
```

## 2. Apply with intent

Wave isn’t a lottery, so don’t treat it like one.

Be selective. Read the issue properly, understand the scope, and check the repo before applying. Make sure it’s something you can realistically deliver well.

A strong application doesn’t need to be long, but it should be specific. A couple of sentences explaining how you’d approach the task or why you’re a good fit is usually enough.

> Generic applications (or obvious AI copy-paste jobs) are easy to spot and rarely get picked. A bit of effort here can make you immediately stand out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Be selective.** Read the issue properly, understand the scope, and check the repo before applying. Make sure it’s something you can realistically deliver well.

**A strong application doesn’t need to be long**, but it should be specific. A couple of sentences explaining how you’d approach the task or why you’re a good fit is usually enough.

**Generic applications** (or obvious AI copy-paste jobs) **are easy to spot** and rarely get picked. A bit of effort here can make you immediately stand out.
```

## 3. Communicate clearly (and don’t disappear)

> Once you’re assigned, stay in the loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you’re assigned, stay in the loop 🔁
```

Keep communication on the GitHub issue or PR as much as possible. That’s where the work lives, and it helps everyone stay aligned. Ask questions there, share progress there and respond to feedback there.

If you get stuck or can’t continue, say so. Don’t go quiet! Issues may be reassigned if there’s no activity, a quick update is always better than silence.

> Also worth saying: be patient. Maintainers are juggling a lot and reviews can take time. Follow up if you need to but don’t spam or demand instant replies. We recommend waiting 24 - 48 hours, pinging after 3 hours is unlikely to get a positive response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Keep communication on the GitHub issue or PR** as much as possible. That’s where the work lives, and it helps everyone stay aligned. Ask questions there, share progress there and respond to feedback there.

**If you get stuck or can’t continue, say so.** Don’t go quiet! Issues may be reassigned if there’s no activity, a quick update is always better than silence.

Also worth saying: **Be patient.** Maintainers are juggling a lot and reviews can take time. Follow up if you need to but don’t spam or demand instant replies. We recommend waiting 24 - 48 hours, pinging after 3 hours is unlikely to get a positive response.
```

## 4. Execute properly

Before you start, read the repo’s contribution guidelines. Every project is a bit different.

When you submit work, make it easy to review. Keep things clean, follow existing patterns, and test where needed.

> One thing that really matters in Wave: **link your PR to the issue clearly**. If that connection isn’t obvious, your work may not be tracked properly. Not sure how? [More on that here](https://docs.drips.network/wave/contributors/faq#my-pr-got-merged-but-i-didnt-receive-points-why).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One thing that really matters in Wave: **link your PR to the issue clearly**. If that connection isn’t obvious, your work may not be tracked properly. Not sure how? [More on that here.](https://docs.drips.network/wave/contributors/faq#my-pr-got-merged-but-i-didnt-receive-points-why).
```

When you get feedback, take it seriously. Don’t ignore it, improve the work and move it forward.

> And we all know AI can help when solving issues but it shouldn’t be doing all the thinking for you. If you can’t explain what you’ve submitted that usually becomes obvious pretty quickly and this may affect if maintainers want to work with you in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly: We all know that AI can help solve issues, but it shouldn’t be doing all the thinking for you. If you can’t explain what you’ve submitted, it becomes obvious pretty quickly, and this may affect whether maintainers want to work with you in the future.
```

## 5. Use the right channels

> Not everything belongs in general chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not everything belongs into `#general`.
```

> - For Wave questions or contribution-related issues → use 🎫 tickets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For Wave questions or contribution-related issues → use the `🎫 tickets` channel on the [Drips Discord server](https://discord.gg/t8XBXZAEs5)
```

> - For KYC, wallets, rewards or feedback → use the [Support Hub](https://www.drips.network/wave/support)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For KYC, rewards, or other sensitive topics → use the chat widget or send us an email through our [Support Hub](https://www.drips.network/wave/support)
```

Using the right channel helps your issue get resolved faster and keeps shared spaces useful for everyone.

> ## 6. Be a good person to work with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 6. Link your Discord account to Drips Wave

Linking your Wave account with your Discord helps us to support you faster when you reach out to us, and you'll automatically receive the Contributor role when you resolve your first issue.

[Click here](https://www.drips.network/wave/link-discord) to get started!

## 7. Be a good person to work with
```

Wave is more than a points system.

Keep things constructive, follow the Discord guidelines, and avoid getting pulled into unproductive back-and-forth. If something’s not working, raise it properly, don’t just vent.

Ask good questions, share useful context and generally try to leave things better than you found them. People notice that stuff.

## Final note

Strong contributors aren’t just the ones who complete issues. They’re the ones who communicate clearly, follow through and are easy to work with. Do that consistently and you’ll make it easy for people to say “yes” to working with you again.

Contribute well. Stay engaged. If you focus on that, you’ll get a lot more out of Wave than just points.

Let’s make some waves 🌊

## TL;DR

- Read the docs before asking questions
- Apply intentionally and where you’re a real fit
- Stay in the loop once assigned - don’t disappear
- Keep communication on GitHub and follow up respectfully
- Link your PR to the issue clearly
- Use tickets and the Support Hub for the right things

> - Be constructive, respectful, and easy to work with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Read the docs** before asking questions
- **Apply intentionally** and where you’re a real fit
- **Stay in the loop** once assigned - don’t disappear
- **Keep communication** on GitHub and follow up respectfully
- **Link your PR** to the issue clearly
- Use tickets and the Support Hub for the right things
- Be constructive, respectful, and easy to work with
```
